Processes
Abstraction: simplified representation of something complicated.
A large part of software engineering is designing abstractions like these that allow users and
other programmers to use powerful and complicated systems without having to know about the details of their
implementation.

Virtualization:
An important  kind of abstraction is virtualization, which is the process of creating
a desirable illusion.

Isolation:

the software object that provides an isolation is a process. one of the most important goals of an operating system is to isolate each running program from the others so that programmers don't have to think about every possible interaction.

A process is a software object that represents a running program. I mean "software object" in the
sense of object-oriented programming, in general, an object contains data and provides methods that operate
on the data. A process is an object that contains the following data.


A process is an object that contains the following data:
- the text of the program, usually a sequence of machine language instructions.
- data associated with the program, including static data(allocated at compile time) and dynamic data
including the call stack and the heap.
- the state of any pending input/output operations. for example, if the process is waiting for data to be
read from the disk or for a packet to arrive on a network, the status of these operations is part of the process.

- The hardware state of the program, which includes data stored in registers, status information, and the
program counter, which indicates which instruction is currently executing.

multi-tasking:
most operating systems have the ability to interrupt a running process at almost any time, save this hardware state, and then resume the process later.

Virtual-memory:
most operating system create illusion that each process has its own chunk of memory, isolated from all other
processes, again programmers generally don't have to think about how virtual memory works.

device abstraction:
processes running on the same computer share the disk drive, the network interface, the graphics card, and
other hardware.


